# GNUplot-in-Nest

**AIM**-Providing GNUplot plotting functionality in the Nest along with the existing Matplotlib.

**Motivation:** 
          Currently NEST uses Matplotlib to plot the graphs.There are certain limitations with the graphs generated using Matplotlib which cannot be neglected.Matplotlib wasn’t designed for exploratory data analysis and visualisation.It is not the best for dealing with time series data since one needs to import all these helper classes for the year, month, week, day formatters, shared a user on a forum. It is also very unwieldy when dealing with multiple datasets while it is easy to convert dataset into a long format and plot it. Another big disadvantage is that the library is very low-level, which means that one needs to write more code to get the visualisation

**Requriment:**
            In NEST we use Matplotlib to plot various graph for the analysis purpose , so without hampering the existing functionality we have to add on another plotting capability using the gnuplot. Graphs produced using Gnuplot are better than Matplotlib in many aspects.We will generate all the generatable graphs using gnuplot. User will be given an option to select the type of graph i.e either Matplotlib or Gnuplot.requriment is not replace the matplot with GNUplot but instade of this we simply add the GNUplot functionality in Nest.so that after the perform any operation we will able to see both types of graph(graph which is generated by matplot and graphs which is generated by GNUplot).and we will use both the types of graph for different-different purposes.
 
**What is GNUplot:**
gnuplot is a command-driven plotting program. It can be used interactively to plot functions and data points in both two- and three-dimensional plots in many different styles and many different output formats. Gnuplot can also be used as a scripting language to automate generation of plots. It is designed primarily for the visual display of scientific data.
Gnuplot output formats:
   On the console
   In a desktop window 
   Embedded in a web page
   File formats designed for document processing (PDF,emf,etc..)
  
**What makes gnuplot excell in compare to other plotting tools ?**
gnuplot can produce output directly on screen, or in many formats of graphics files, including Portable Network Graphics (PNG), Encapsulated PostScript (EPS), Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG), JPEG and many others. It is also capable of producing LaTeX code that can be included directly in LaTeX documents, making use of LaTeX's fonts and powerful formula notation abilities. The program can be used both interactively and in batch mode using scripts.

gnuplot can read data in multiple formats, including ability to read data on the fly generated by other programs (piping), create multiple plots on one image, do 2D, 3D, contour plots, parametric equations, supports various linear and non-linear coordinate systems, projections, geographic and time data reading and presentation, box plots of various forms, histograms, labels, and other custom elements on the plot, including shapes, text and images, that can be set manually, computed by script or automatically from input data.

gnuplot also provides scripting capabilities, looping, functions, text processing, variables, macros, arbitrary pre-processing of input data (usually across columns), as well ability to perform non-linear multi-dimensional multi-set weighted data fitting.

The advantage of this software over other plotting programs is that Gnuplot has many features that can customize plots easily. Moreover, once a script is made, same kind of plot can be easily repeated with different data. This makes the analysis faster. Another advantage is that Gnuplot includes tools for processing data.

Big amount of data cannot be loaded in some programs. However, it can be handled by Gnuplot since it does not preload data in any sheet. Gnuplot includes a dynamic terminal that allows to zoom in among other features.
